README.rst, before:

=====
flats
=====

Minimal library that enables flattening of nested instances of container types.

|pypi| |readthedocs| |actions| |coveralls|

.. |pypi| image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/flats.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/flats
   :alt: PyPI version and link.

.. |readthedocs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/flats/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://flats.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
   :alt: Read the Docs documentation status.

.. |actions| image:: https://github.com/lapets/flats/workflows/lint-test-cover-docs/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/lapets/flats/actions/workflows/lint-test-cover-docs.yml
   :alt: GitHub Actions status.

.. |coveralls| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/lapets/flats/badge.svg?branch=main
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/lapets/flats?branch=main
   :alt: Coveralls test coverage summary.

Installation and Usage
----------------------
This library is available as a `package on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/flats>`__::

    python -m pip install flats

The library can be imported in the usual ways::

    import flats
    from flats import flats

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. |Iterable| replace:: ``Iterable``
.. _Iterable: https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html#collections.abc.Iterable

.. |GeneratorType| replace:: ``GeneratorType``
.. _GeneratorType: https://docs.python.org/3/library/types.html#types.GeneratorType

This library provides a function that can flatten any instance of a container type that is the root of a tree of nested instances of container types, returning as an iterable the sequence of all objects or values (that are not of a container type) encountered during an in-order traversal. Any instance of the |Iterable|_ class or of the |GeneratorType|_ is considered to be an instance of a container type by this library::

    >>> from flats import flats
    >>> list(flats([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]]))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

The nested instances need not be of the same type::

    >>> tuple(flats([{1}, {2}, {3}, frozenset({4}), iter([5, 6, 7])]))
    (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
    >>> list(flats(['abc', 'xyz']))
    ['a', 'b', 'c', 'x', 'y', 'z']
    >>> list(flats([range(3), range(3)]))
    [0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2]

It is also possible to limit the depth to which nested instances of a container type are recursively traversed during the flattening process (leaving unmodified the nesting of any instances that are found at a greater depth)::

    >>> list(flats([[[1, 2], 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]], depth=1))
    [[1, 2], 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
    >>> list(flats([[[1, 2], 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]], depth=2))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
    >>> list(flats([[[1, [2]], 3], [4, [[[5]]], 6, 7]], depth=float('inf')))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

Development
-----------
All installation and development dependencies are managed using `setuptools <https://pypi.org/project/setuptools>`__ and are fully specified in ``setup.py``. The ``extras_require`` parameter is used to `specify optional requirements <https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#optional-dependencies>`__ for various development tasks. This makes it possible to specify additional options (such as ``docs``, ``lint``, and so on) when performing installation using `pip <https://pypi.org/project/pip>`__::

    python -m pip install .[docs,lint]

Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. include:: toc.rst

The documentation can be generated automatically from the source files using `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org>`__::

    python -m pip install .[docs]
    cd docs
    sphinx-apidoc -f -E --templatedir=_templates -o _source .. ../setup.py && make html

Testing and Conventions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
All unit tests are executed and their coverage is measured when using `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org>`__ (see ``setup.cfg`` for configuration details)::

    python -m pip install .[test]
    python -m pytest

Alternatively, all unit tests are included in the module itself and can be executed using `doctest <https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html>`__::

    python flats/flats.py -v

Style conventions are enforced using `Pylint <https://www.pylint.org>`__::

    python -m pip install .[lint]
    python -m pylint flats

Contributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In order to contribute to the source code, open an issue or submit a pull request on the `GitHub page <https://github.com/lapets/flats>`__ for this library.

Versioning
^^^^^^^^^^
Beginning with version 0.1.0, the version number format for this library and the changes to the library associated with version number increments conform with `Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 <https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200>`__.

Publishing
^^^^^^^^^^
This library can be published as a `package on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/flats>`__ by a package maintainer. First, install the dependencies required for packaging and publishing::

    python -m pip install .[publish]

Remove any old build/distribution files. Then, package the source into a distribution archive using the `wheel <https://pypi.org/project/wheel>`__ package::

    rm -rf dist *.egg-info
    python setup.py sdist bdist_wheel

Finally, upload the package distribution archive to `PyPI <https://pypi.org>`__ using the `twine <https://pypi.org/project/twine>`__ package::

    python -m twine upload dist/*

Commit message:

Use `pyproject.toml` for package/dependencies/configs; use `build` to publish.

README.rst, after:

=====
flats
=====

Minimal library that enables flattening of nested instances of container types.

|pypi| |readthedocs| |actions| |coveralls|

.. |pypi| image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/flats.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/flats
   :alt: PyPI version and link.

.. |readthedocs| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/flats/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://flats.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
   :alt: Read the Docs documentation status.

.. |actions| image:: https://github.com/lapets/flats/workflows/lint-test-cover-docs/badge.svg
   :target: https://github.com/lapets/flats/actions/workflows/lint-test-cover-docs.yml
   :alt: GitHub Actions status.

.. |coveralls| image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/lapets/flats/badge.svg?branch=main
   :target: https://coveralls.io/github/lapets/flats?branch=main
   :alt: Coveralls test coverage summary.

Installation and Usage
----------------------
This library is available as a `package on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/flats>`__::

    python -m pip install flats

The library can be imported in the usual ways::

    import flats
    from flats import flats

Examples
^^^^^^^^

.. |Iterable| replace:: ``Iterable``
.. _Iterable: https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.abc.html#collections.abc.Iterable

.. |GeneratorType| replace:: ``GeneratorType``
.. _GeneratorType: https://docs.python.org/3/library/types.html#types.GeneratorType

This library provides a function that can flatten any instance of a container type that is the root of a tree of nested instances of container types, returning as an iterable the sequence of all objects or values (that are not of a container type) encountered during an in-order traversal. Any instance of the |Iterable|_ class or of the |GeneratorType|_ is considered to be an instance of a container type by this library::

    >>> from flats import flats
    >>> list(flats([[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]]))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

The nested instances need not be of the same type::

    >>> tuple(flats([{1}, {2}, {3}, frozenset({4}), iter([5, 6, 7])]))
    (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
    >>> list(flats(['abc', 'xyz']))
    ['a', 'b', 'c', 'x', 'y', 'z']
    >>> list(flats([range(3), range(3)]))
    [0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2]

It is also possible to limit the depth to which nested instances of a container type are recursively traversed during the flattening process (leaving unmodified the nesting of any instances that are found at a greater depth)::

    >>> list(flats([[[1, 2], 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]], depth=1))
    [[1, 2], 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
    >>> list(flats([[[1, 2], 3], [4, 5, 6, 7]], depth=2))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
    >>> list(flats([[[1, [2]], 3], [4, [[[5]]], 6, 7]], depth=float('inf')))
    [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]

Development
-----------
All installation and development dependencies are fully specified in ``pyproject.toml``. The ``project.optional-dependencies`` object is used to `specify optional requirements <https://peps.python.org/pep-0621>`__ for various development tasks. This makes it possible to specify additional options (such as ``docs``, ``lint``, and so on) when performing installation using `pip <https://pypi.org/project/pip>`__::

    python -m pip install .[docs,lint]

Documentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The documentation can be generated automatically from the source files using `Sphinx <https://www.sphinx-doc.org>`__::

    python -m pip install .[docs]
    cd docs
    sphinx-apidoc -f -E --templatedir=_templates -o _source .. && make html

Testing and Conventions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
All unit tests are executed and their coverage is measured when using `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org>`__ (see the ``pyproject.toml`` file for configuration details)::

    python -m pip install .[test]
    python -m pytest

Alternatively, all unit tests are included in the module itself and can be executed using `doctest <https://docs.python.org/3/library/doctest.html>`__::

    python flats/flats.py -v

Style conventions are enforced using `Pylint <https://pylint.pycqa.org>`__::

    python -m pip install .[lint]
    python -m pylint flats

Contributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In order to contribute to the source code, open an issue or submit a pull request on the `GitHub page <https://github.com/lapets/flats>`__ for this library.

Versioning
^^^^^^^^^^
Beginning with version 0.1.0, the version number format for this library and the changes to the library associated with version number increments conform with `Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 <https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200>`__.

Publishing
^^^^^^^^^^
This library can be published as a `package on PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/flats>`__ by a package maintainer. First, install the dependencies required for packaging and publishing::

    python -m pip install .[publish]

Ensure that the correct version number appears in the ``pyproject.toml`` file and in any links to this package's Read the Docs documentation that exist in this README document. Also ensure that the Read the Docs project for this library has an `automation rule <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/automation-rules.html>`__ that activates and sets as the default all tagged versions. Create and push a tag for this version (replacing ``?.?.?`` with the version number)::

    git tag ?.?.?
    git push origin ?.?.?

Remove any old build/distribution files. Then, package the source into a distribution archive using the `wheel <https://pypi.org/project/wheel>`__ package::

    rm -rf build dist *.egg-info
    python -m build --sdist --wheel .

Finally, upload the package distribution archive to `PyPI <https://pypi.org>`__ using the `twine <https://pypi.org/project/twine>`__ package::

    python -m twine upload dist/*
